Implement versioning changes (#17)
editorconfig/specification: index.rst

.. contents:: Table of Contents

> Introduction (informative)

Author: - "Normative": software that doesn't implement the section does not conform to the specification.
- "Informative": software that ignores the section can still conform to the specification.

[Reference](https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp97#section-1.1)

> Introduction (informative)

Reviewer: Got it. Could you move the last paragraph of this section above the section title and possibly italicize it?

to defined styles. EditorConfig files are easily readable and they work nicely
with version control systems.

All content in this document is normative unless marked "(informative)".

Terminology
===========

In EditorConfig:

- "EditorConfig files" (usually named ``.editorconfig``) store settings,
  and must conform to this specification.
- "Cores" parse files conforming to this specification.
- "Plugins" apply settings to files being edited, and use cores to
  determine the settings.
- "Editors" permit editing files, and use plugins to apply settings.

A conforming core or plugin must pass the tests in the
`core-tests repository`_ or `plugin-tests repository`_, respectively.

*(informative)* Some plugins include or bundle their own cores, and some rely
on external cores.  Some editors include or bundle plugin or core
functionality.  Editors, plugins, and cores may all come from different
people.  Those people may or may not have any direct interaction with the
EditorConfig organization.

File Format
===========

> EditorConfig files use an INI-like file format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EditorConfig files are in an INI-like file format.
```

to defined styles. EditorConfig files are easily readable and they work nicely
with version control systems.

Terminology
===========

In EditorConfig:

- "EditorConfig files" (usually named ``.editorconfig``) store settings,
  and must conform to this specification.
- "Cores" parse files conforming to this specification.
- "Plugins" apply settings to files being edited, and use cores to
  determine the settings.
- "Editors" permit editing files, and use plugins to apply settings.

A conforming core or plugin must pass the tests in the
`core-tests repository`_ or `plugin-tests repository`_, respectively.

*(informative)* Some plugins include or bundle their own cores, and some rely
on external cores.  Some editors include or bundle plugin or core
functionality.  Editors, plugins, and cores may all come from different
people.  Those people may or may not have any direct interaction with the
EditorConfig organization.

File Format
===========

> 

Reviewer 2: Nitpicky but this change does not deal with versioning. It's a great call out that it's INI like but that warrants a separate PR and maybe another paragraph in this file.

Author: I think you are referring to old line 44 / new line 68.  Yes?  I did indeed make some cleanup changes throughout in this PR along with the versioning changes.  I certainly can move them to a separate PR but would prefer not to since they are so small.

The "INI-like" nature has been discussed many times, e.g., https://github.com/editorconfig/editorconfig/issues/279 .

Reviewer 2: Can live with that, as said very nitpicky. Happy to see this go in.

Author: Much appreciated!

Suggestions for Plugin Developers
=================================

TODO. For now please read the `Plugin Guidelines`_ on GitHub wiki.

Versioning
==========

*This section applies beginning with v0.13 of this specification.*

This specification has a version, tagged in the `specification repository`_.
Each specification version corresponds to the same version in the
`core-tests repository`_.

Each EditorConfig core, to pass the core tests, must process version
numbers given with the ``-b`` switch, and must report version numbers when
given ``-v`` or ``--version``.  The version numbers used for ``-b``, ``-v``,
and ``--version`` are versions of this specification.  For example, the
Vimscript core might respond to ``-v`` with:

::

  EditorConfig Vimscript core v1.0.0 - Specification Version 0.13

Cores, plugins, or editors supporting EditorConfig have their own version
numbers.  Those version numbers are independent of the version number of

> this specification.

Reviewer: Do you think we can provide a helper regex here, so that programs can distinguish this uniform format from the old ones?

Author: We can certainly provide regexes, but I'm not sure I understand what you mean.  I think you are referring to the regex at https://github.com/editorconfig/editorconfig-core-test/blob/6c8fe6815b12f96f4b357d610ee1cd8da074880a/cli/CMakeLists.txt#L32 .  @florianb in https://github.com/editorconfig/editorconfig/issues/395#issuecomment-604300415 requested formatting the version numbers per semver - maybe we should discuss there or in a new issue.

Reviewer: This is to help users who need to process the output of version numbers. What I meant is something like:

    if the output of $(editorconfig -v) matches the given regex; then
        process according to the new format
    else
        process according to the old format
    endif

Author: I think I may not understand.  What is the problem you would like to solve by including that logic in the specification?  I am happy to write text but do not want to do so unless I am sure it matches your expectation.

Each new version of the specification will change the way of processing somewhat.  Would a table of releases perhaps help?

Reviewer: Sorry, I did not mean to write such a full logic. What I meant is to provide a regex so that it can be used to determine whether the version string matches the current format. In other words, it might be useful to have a regex that extracts the two most important version numbers in the string. Does this clarify?

Author: No worries, but I'm still struggling with the use case.  What if we put a link in the specification pointing directly to the relevant test?  Then, if we changed the tests, we wouldn't also have to change the specification.

Currently the tests require `vX.Y.Z` ([here](https://github.com/jjn1056/DBIx-Class-Migration/issues/130#issuecomment-565671773)).  We could put that regex into the spec if you wanted, but there's still @florianb's open https://github.com/editorconfig/editorconfig/issues/395#issuecomment-604300415 suggesting full semver v2.0.0 compliance.

Reviewer 3: Thank you very much for that great work @cxw42!

When reading this proposal and the discussion the first thing which popped into my mind was that i'd like to ask for a machine readable representation as well. I scripted a lot of stuff for Infrastructure-Maintenance and it's often handy to easily compare or parse version numbers without having to code that much.

Author: sure - let's have a vote on your suggestion to semver the specification, then see what updates make sense.  If we do go with semver, we can point people to existing parse/compare libraries such as https://www.npmjs.com/package/semver .

Author: Vote requested at https://github.com/editorconfig/editorconfig/issues/395#issuecomment-628557400

Suggestions for Plugin Developers
=================================

TODO. For now please read the `Plugin Guidelines`_ on GitHub wiki.

Versioning
==========

*This section applies beginning with v0.13 of this specification.*

This specification has a version, tagged in the `specification repository`_.
Each specification version corresponds to the same version in the
`core-tests repository`_.

Each EditorConfig core, to pass the core tests, must process version

> numbers given with the ``-b`` switch, and must report version numbers when

Reviewer 2: I think this need more words to describe what is expected with this switch, wasn't clear to me until I read your comment on the PR. Also define what the core engine should do when it received a version number it can not use, what should it print, what's the required exit code?

Author: I agree.  Unfortunately, I'm not sure we have those answers yet :) .  Currently, there are only a few version-related checks in the core tests, and those are what this section is referring to.  If you are amenable, I will open a separate issue to discuss your point.  Please let me know your thoughts.

Reviewer 2: +1 to continuing this in a new ticket and unblocking this PR. Look forward to the ticket!

Author: Open as https://github.com/editorconfig/editorconfig/issues/428
